# Chapter One Reading Response

### New Concepts
1. I really enjoyed how the reading discussed Live Coding's mission to reimagine coding and software. I think there's a lot of value in challenging traditional views of software, and there's something very appealing of a process that makes it more dynamic and performative rather than static. I love how it encourages experimentation and a more organic, evolving relationship with computers- something I initially never would have imagined regarding this field. Growing up, I never thought I would ever be coding. It seemed like my worst nightmare at first, but as I became more interested in video game development I got exposed to Object Oriented Programming, and that creative/visual element became an anchor that allowed me to explore coding enough to find myself genuinely enjoying it. I'm excited to read that Live Coding seems to lean into those ideals even further and can't wait to expirement!

1. Something I didn't expect when going into this course was the cultural and political background of Live Coding. It aligns with open-source principles, DIY culture, and to my biggest surprise (and simultaneous immediate understanding) a punk/post-punk ethos- rejecting rigid software structures. I love seeing how it challenges the standards of Big Tech and looks to benefit users as active participants instead of passive consumers.

### Familiar Concepts
1. In the introduction section, the reading discusses how the mere concept of writing a live coding book is a bit odd or "perverse". While not explicitly why the statement was made, this brought to mind the discussion we had during our first day of class regarding programmer anarchy and the reluctance towards formal academia in the live coding community. I remember similar stances from other subjects I've studied in the past- particularly in the context of a queer theory class I took as a freshman at UNT. An essential part of our discussions was understanding that we were studying from a very Western perspective and that the intent of the course was to dismantle traditional assumptions about gender and sexual identities (including those in academia), and I felt that our professor did such a wonderful job navigating that dilemma. This is more so just commentary, but I'm excited to see how the environment of our class will approach the same issue- bringing this art form to higher education while still staying close to the heart of live coding.

1. The "Turing Complete User" concept is new to me in name, but it's principle is something familiar and extremely relevant to our lives. The reading highlights concerns about users losing autonomy as computing becomes more seamless- so common and effective it blends into our everyday life. This abstraction is something I believe is actually really beneficial to the user experience when done for their benefit (my OCD sings every time I come across a clean, pretty, and accessible UI), but in our current political climate, there are many cases of softwares and systems using our ignorance against us to hide malicious processes (stealing art for AI model training, censorship on social media platforms, the Honey scam, and so much more). The "Turing Complete User" concept advocates for reclaiming user agency by making programming transparent and participatory, and I love this push for change. I'm also taking Machine Learning for Musicians this semester, and it's a subject that (while still interesting to me) raises a lot of personal ethical concerns, so I'm always happy to see tech communities that actively battle these things.
